We will talk about the most important
and broad concepts in strategy
and marketing, which is segmentation.
We could be talking about this
for days, but I want you to
stay with a few concrete lessons.
What is segmentation or
segmentation?
Well, it is very simple.
Basically it is from the total population
or what we do is to introduce
a series of variables that
allows us to identify
segments, which are groups,
and each group shares common
characteristics that can be of
different type.
But basically what allows
us to segment, thanks to those characteristics
that they have in common, is
to adapt our value proposal,
adapt the channels, adapt
the strategies and all marketing
to be able to reach them
more effectively, more
efficiently, etc.
The question is, how is it
segmented?
How will we do this?
We have the total market and
what are we going to do to identify
those segments?
The key criteria are the
variables or segmentation criteria.
What variables should
we use to classify?
We can segment the market according
to where they live, which is geographical
segmentation.
We can segment the market according
to variables such as age, gender, income
level, whether they are married or
single, at what point in their
life they are, whether they
have a university degree, if they
are millennials, etc.
These two variables, geographical
and demographic, are the
most traditional segmentation variables.
In addition, we can segment according
to the profile, which is called psychographic
segmentation.
And what is it we will do?
Well, we will identify profiles,
which in many cases interest us
because they are our target
audience, and we will put them
a name, we will describe them.
Imagine that they are
more innovative, unconformist,
traditional, classic,
urban, etc.
We will describe those profiles and
we will segment the population according
to that criterion.
These first three we have
seen, we have seen geographic
variables, demographic
variables and psychographic
variables or by profile, which
allows us, after all, to analyze
or identify who our customers
are.
And why?
Because knowing who they are,
we know, allows us to address them.
This is very obvious.
It helps us in the capture
and growth strategy.
If you don’t know who your customers
are, you don’t know where to go
and find them.
This is the first of
the exercises a company has to do.
Who are my clients?
And you can do so using these three
variables, where they live, what their
demographic data is and what
profiles they are.
We can also segment our
current customers, our
potential customers, the
market, based on behavior.
This is what is done, but based
on behavior as customers.
So far, what we have done is to
do an objective segmentation
of who they are, how they are,
and where they live.
But now what we will analyze is all
the information we have in the CRM,
in the different systems, from
the interactions that have been
generated with customers and we
will segment the customers.
And here I want you to keep in mind
that with the growth of the Internet
we have so much information
that we can do one-to-one segmentation.
What information can we analyze?
We can analyze information such as how
much money they generate, how much
we are selling them, what is the profitability
that each customer provides us
and segment, whether they are loyal
customers or not, what is the
urgency they buy us.
We can segment based on all these
variables, how they have known us
and we could go to a level of
greater detail and analyze, for
example, the time they have
spent on our website, how many
campaigns they have clicked,
how many of the emails we
have sent them have opened, etc.
As you can see, these are examples
that I want you to understand
all the information we can collect
from these customers and that allow
us to make segments based on
the behavior they have had with
us, with the aim of adapting
the proposals, channels,
etc.
What is it all for us?
What is the use of measuring
and segmenting customers
based on their behavior?
Well, mostly I think it
tells us what works.
Remember that this is historical.
We measure everything that is
happening to them.
We can draw conclusions of
what is working in all
customer interactions and
from this conclusion of
what is working and what
is not working, what
we can do in the end, what
allows us to optimize.
Optimize what we do in customer
capture, for example.
If you know, you are measuring what
are the campaigns that are in addition
we can optimize the development of
each of the customers, that
is, sell more, earn more money
with each of the customers.
Why is?
Well, because we are measuring
and we are segmenting customers
based on how much they are generating
for example, or what products
they are buying and all the
efforts we make can be
adapted to that.
Let us take a look.
So far, what segmentation has done
to us is that customers, we already
have different segments of who our
customers are, we already know who
we have to go for and also the segmentation
by behavior allows us to understand
or go understanding what
is what works and what is what
doesn’t work, because we are
measuring everything, but
we are losing a lot of
things.
Remember that mainly consist
of providing solutions or generating
so we have to segment as
well or we have to incorporate
the perspective of what
are the problems, challenges
and needs of customers
in relation to us and
this cannot be measured.
This is a much more complicated investigation.
We have to analyze what is your motivation,
what is your challenge, whether we are
giving you a solution or not and this
will allow us to really understand
the reasons.
Why are they buying us or not buying us?
And from this knowledge, which
we can develop, for example,
with the empathy map, which
is a tool we will learn to
use, we can absolutely
evolve our value proposal
to adapt to those needs, to
those problems, to those
challenges that customers
have.